=head1 NAME

proxyrec - a network recorder

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<proxyrec> [B<-f> I<format>] [B<-p> I<rport>] [B<-l> I<lport>] I<host>[B<:>I<port>] [I<outfile>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Proxyrec> sits listening on B<localhost>:I<lport> and proxies incoming connections
to I<host>:I<rport>, recording them to disk.  By default, the data is saved without
timing info, but you can request a format like ttyrec which does include timing.

 For example, if you want to debug your WWW server, you can do:
        $ proxyrec -l 8080 server:80

If you specify an I<outfile>, only the first connection will be accepted, so usually
you'll want to let B<proxyrec> name files on its own.

=head2 Options:

=over

=item B<-f> I<format>, B<--format>

Choose a different format.  For the list, do: B<proxyrec -f some_junk> but
save for the default (ansi=unadorned data) you'll typically only use ttyrec.

=item B<-l> I<lport>, B<--local-port>

Choose the port to listen on.  It's 9999 by default.

=item B<-p> I<rport>, B<--port>

Port to connect to.  Same as specifying it with a colon after the hostname.

=item B<-t>, B<--telnet>

Instructs proxyrec to watch the data for TELNET information, recording some of
them (namely, window size, its changes and requests to turn echo on/off) and
cleaning the TELNET protocol away.

=item B<-a>, B<--append>

If the output file exists, it will be appended instead of being overwritten.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

A short summary of options.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<termrec(1)>, L<termplay(1)>, L<termtime(1)>, L<termcat(1)>.
