=head1 NAME

termplay - replay a ttyrec "video"

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<termplay> I<file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Termplay> can play back ttyrec recordings, like those produced by B<termrec>,
B<ttyrec>, services like nethack.alt.org or crawl.akrasiacs.org and so on.

Certain non-file streams can be played as well, such as:

=over

=item file://

=item tcp://

=item telnet:// (e.g. telnet://towel.blinkenlights.nl)

=item termcast:// (e.g. termcast://termcast.org/FooTV)

=back


=head2 Keys available during replay:

=over

=item B<space>

pause/resume

=item B<enter>

advance by a single frame

=item B<->, B<S>

slow down (by half)

=item B<+>, B<F>

speed up (2x, then 4x, ...)

=item B<1>

reset speed to 1.0

=item B<left arrow>/B<down arrow>/B<PgDn>

rewind by 10sec/1min/10min

=item B<right arrow>/B<up arrow>/B<PgUp>

skip 10sec/1min/10min

=item B<R>

rewind to beginning

=item B<Q>

quit B<termplay>

=back

=head2 Options:

=over

=item B<-f> I<format>, B<--format>

Here you specify the format.  Those available are:

=over

=item baudrate

The data will be replayed at 2400 baud.

=item ttyrec

Compatible with B<ttyrec> by Satoru Takabayashi.

=item nh-recorder

Compatible with B<nh-recorder> by Helge Dennhardt.

=item dosrecorder

Compatible with B<DosRecorder>.

=item asciicast

Compatible with B<asciinema> by Marcin Kulik, formats v1 and v2.

=item live

The data is assumed to be played at the same timing as it arrives.  This is useful
for watching termcasts, etc -- giving you the ability to rewind to an interesting
moment.  Trying to use this on a real file will blast its whole contents right into
your face, beware!

=item auto (default)

This pseudo-format will make B<termplay> try to guess the format, currently only
between B<ttyrec> and B<live>.  Caveats about B<live> blasting the whole file
right away apply!

=back

=item B<-s> I<X>, B<--speed>

Sets the initial speed to X, a real number between 0.001 and 1000.0.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Shows a short explanation of parameters.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<termrec(1)>, L<proxyrec(1)>, L<termcat(1)>, L<termtime(1)>.
