=head1 NAME

termrec - a tty recorder

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<termrec> [B<-f> I<format>] [B<-e> I<command>] [I<outfile>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Termrec> is a tty recorder; it can record the output of any text mode program
which you can then replay with B<termplay>, B<ttyplay>, B<ipbt>, B<ttyplayer>,
B<nh-recorder> or similar.

If I<outfile> ends in B<.gz> or B<.bz2>, the data will be appropiately compressed.

If no I<outfile> is given, B<termrec> will produce a name like 2008-11-27.13-02-42.ttyrec.bz2

=head2 Options:

=over

=item B<-f> I<format>, B<--format>

You can specify a format other than ttyrec.  Those available are:

=over

=item ansi

No timing data.  This is same as the output of L<script(1)>.

=item ttyrec

Compatible with B<ttyrec> by Satoru Takabayashi.

=item nh-recorder

Compatible with B<nh-recorder> by Helge Dennhardt.

=back

=item B<-e> I<command>, B<--exec>

Runs a I<command> instead of spawning a shell and records its output.

=item B<-r>, B<--raw>

Inhibits noting info about your terminal size and UTFness.  This data is usually a good
thing, but can confuse some programs.  Also note that none of the formats provides a way
to mark which exactly charset you use -- only if it's UTF-8 or one of ancient ones.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Shows a short explanation of parameters.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item SHELL

Unless B<-e> is given, this will be the shell spawned, falling back to B</bin/sh>
if not set.  On Windows, COMSPEC is used instead.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<termplay(1)>, L<proxyrec(1)>, L<termtime(1)>, L<termcat(1)>.
