=head1 NAME

vt100 - a library for handling vt100 pseudo-terminals

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include E<lt>vt100.hE<gt>>

Link with I<-ltty>.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Functions:

=over

=item B<vt100  vt100_init(int >I<sx>B<, int >I<sy>B<, int >I<resizable>B<);>

Creates a new vt100 terminal, of size I<sx>E<times>I<sy>.  If you want user input to
be allowed to change that size, set I<resizable> to non-zero.

=item B<int    vt100_resize(vt100 >I<vt>B<, int >I<nsx>B<, int >I<nsy>B<);>

Resizes the I<vt> to I<nsx>E<times>I<nsy>.  This works even on terminals marked as
non-resizable since that prevents only user input from resizing, not you.

=item B<void   vt100_reset(vt100 >I<vt>B<);>

Clears the screen and attributes.

=item B<void   vt100_free(vt100 >I<vt>B<);>

Deallocates the I<vt> and all its internal structures.

=item B<void   vt100_write(vt100 >I<vt>B<, char *>I<buf>B<, int >I<len>B<);>

Writes I<len> bytes into the terminal, parsing them as vt100 codes.

=item B<void   vt100_printf(vt100 >I<vt>B<, const char *>I<fmt>B<, >I<...>B<);>

Does a B<printf> into the terminal.

=item B<vt100  vt100_copy(vt100 >I<vt>B<);>

Allocates a new vt100 terminal, making it an exact copy of an existing one,
including its internal state.

=back

=head2 Inside the terminal

You'll most likely be interested in the following fields of the structure:

=over

=item vt100 {

=item     int I<sx>,I<sy>;             // screen size

=item     int I<cx>,I<cy>;             // cursor position

=item     attrchar *I<scr>;         // screen buffer

=item     int I<attr>;              // current attribute

=back

I<scr> is an array of character/attribute pairs, more exactly, each element is a struct C<{ ucs ch; int attr; }>.
The array is a flat one of I<vt>B<-E<gt>>I<sx>*I<vt>B<-E<gt>>I<sy> elements, arranged row by row.  A screen
coordinate I<x>,I<y> is stored at I<x>+I<y>*I<vt>B<-E<gt>>I<sy>.

For other fields, please RTFS the header itself: B<vt100.h>


=head2 TTY event callbacks

Well, you have written some data to the terminal.  Now you probably want to put it
somewhere.  What now?  The vt100 structure has a number of I<event hooks> that you
can attach your functions to.

These hooks are callbacks inside the B<vt100> structure that you can set.  The
callback fields are:

=over

=item B<void *l_data;>

it's a place to put your private data in

=item B<void (*l_char)(vt100 >I<vt>B<, int >I<x>B<, int >I<y>B<, ucs >I<ch>B<, int >I<attr>B<);>

after a character has been written to the screen; the cursor advances by that character

=item B<void (*l_cursor)(vt100 >I<vt>B<, int >I<x>B<, int >I<y>B<);>

after the cursor has moved

=item B<void (*l_clear)(vt100 >I<vt>B<, int >I<x>B<, int >I<y>B<, int >I<len>B<);>

after a chunk of screen has been cleared

If an endpoint spills outside of the current line,
it will go all the way to an end of screen.

If the cursor moves, you'll get a separate I<l_cursor>, although
it is already in place during the I<l_clear> call.

=item B<void (*l_scroll)(vt100 >I<vt>B<, int >I<nl>B<);>

after the region s1<=y<s2 is scrolled nl lines (nl<0 -> backwards, nl>0 -> forward).

There's no separare I<l_cursor> event, I<cx> and I<cy> are already updated.

=item B<void (*l_flag)(vt100 >I<vt>B<, int >I<f>B<, int >I<v>B<);>

when a flag changes to I<v>.  Flags that are likely to be of interest to you are:

=over

=item * B<VT100_FLAG_CURSOR>

cursor visibility

=item * B<VT100_FLAG_KPAD>

application keypad mode (more detailed codes for keypad arrow keys)

=back

=item B<void (*l_resize)(vt100 >I<vt>B<, int >I<sx>B<, int >I<sy>B<);>

after the tty has been resized

=item B<void (*l_flush)(vt100 >I<vt>B<);>

when a write chunk ends

=item B<void (*l_free)(vt100 >I<vt>B<);>

before the tty is destroyed

=back


=head2 Vt-on-vt redirection

For the case when you want the output go to a real terminal, there are:

=over

=item B<void   vtvt_attach(vt100 >I<vt>B<, FILE *>I<tty>B<, int >I<dump>B<);>

Attaches the FILE stream I<tty> to terminal I<vt>.  Usually, I<tty> will be B<stdout>.
Whenever the contents of I<vt> changes, appropriate data will be written to the stream
as well.  If I<dump> is non-zero, the current state will be drawn, otherwise, only
subsequent changes will be shown.

The redirection will last until the terminal is destroyed by B<vt100_free()>.

=item B<void   vtvt_resize(vt100 >I<vt>B<, int >I<sx>B<, int >I<sy>B<);>

Tells libtty that the B<real> terminal has been resized (for resizing the virtual one,
please use B<vt100_resize()>).

=item B<void   vtvt_dump(vt100 >I<vt>B<);>

Forces a full-screen redraw of the current contents of I<vt>.

=back


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<libttyrec(3)>
